This article lists events from the year 2020 in South Sudan


== Incumbents ==
President: Salva Kiir Mayardit
Vice President: Riek Machar


== Events ==
Ongoing – South Sudanese Civil War, Sudanese nomadic conflicts, ethnic violence in South Sudan

8 January – The United States announces sanctions against First Vice President Taban Deng Gai of South Sudan for human rights violations.
10 February – There still is no agreement in South Sudan over the number and boundaries of its states. A week later talks are still stalled.
13 February – The government of South Sudan is accused of ignoring four reports linking oil pollution and birth defects in Upper Nile and Unity states.
19 February – Locust swarms spread from Uganda to South Sudan.
20 February – The government and rebels reach a peace agreement in South Sudan.
5 April - The first case of COVID-19 in the country was confirmed in a 29-year-old patient, a United Nations worker, who arrived on 28 February from the Netherlands.
14 May 14 – The first death from COVID-19 occurs in the country.
16 May – Sudan People's Liberation Army Day, South Sudan
18 May – First Vice President Riek Machar announced he and his wife, Angelina Teny, had tested positive for the virus.
19 May – Information Minister Michael Makuei Lueth and all members of the nation's 15-member coronavirus task force tested positive for COVID-19.
4 August – Olympic track and field athlete Yiech Pur Biel was named a United Nations Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
9 August - Violence erupted when South Sudan People's Defence Forces members attempted to disarm civilians at a market in Tonj East, leading to at least seventy people being killed.
10 August - Armed civilians attacked a South Sudan People's Defence Forces base in the town of Romich, where they also looted a market.
September – Two soldiers are convicted of rape and 24 on other charges for crimes committed in Yei, Central Equatoria in May of this year.
11 December – International food security experts from the Famine Review Committeesaid in December 2020 that Pibor County was likely in a famine. Flooding and violence have prevented access to aid.
31 December – One million people have been displaced by floods since June. Food shortages, malaria, and diarrheal diseases spread.