Events in the year 2022 in Estonia.


== Incumbents ==
President: Alar Karis
Prime Minister: Kaja Kallas


== Events ==
Ongoing — COVID-19 pandemic in Estonia

18 February – Estonia delivers a shipment of U.S.-made FGM-148 Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine.
26 February – Estonia announces that it will close its airspace to all Russian airlines.
2 March – Estonia voted on a United Nations resolution condemning Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.
3 March – The Estonian cargo ship MV Helt sinks near the Port of Odesa in the Black Sea following an explosion. All six crew members on board were rescued, according to authorities. Estonian Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets says that an investigation into the incident will occur.
5 April – Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden expel over 100 Russian diplomatic staff from their countries. Latvia closes the Russian consulates in Daugavpils and Liepāja, while Estonia closes the Russian diplomatic facilities in Narva and Tartu. These actions come as a reaction to the newly revealed Bucha massacre.
3 June – Estonia's coalition agreement collapses as the junior coalition partner, the Centre Party, joins the far-right EKRE in defeating a government bill on primary education, and is subsequently expelled by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Kallas is expected to form a coalition with two other parties, Isamaa and the Social Democrats.
17 June – Estonia removes all of its COVID-19 entry restrictions for non-EU travellers after the Estonian Health Board concluded that the situation is under control and that third-country nationals are unlikely to affect the epidemiological situation in the country.
21 June – Estonia reports that a Russian Border Service Mi-8 helicopter violated its airspace over the weekend. The Russian ambassador to Estonia was summoned in response to the incident.
29 June – Estonia reports its first case of monkeypox.
14 July – Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas resigns to form a new coalition government.
18 July  – A new three-party coalition government is formed.
11 August – Estonia and Latvia formally withdraw from the Cooperation between China and Central and Eastern European Countries group amid tensions with China over its human rights record and its support of Russia's war on Ukraine.