2022 in Russia is the 31st year of the Russian Federation.


== Leadership ==
President of Russia: Vladimir Putin
Prime Minister of Russia: Mikhail Mishustin
Chairman of the Federation Council: Valentina Matvienko
Chairman of the State Duma: Vyacheslav Volodin


=== Governors ===


== Events ==
Ongoing: Russo-Ukrainian war, COVID-19 pandemic in Russia (initially)

28 January – 20th Russian Golden Eagle Awards ceremony
3 February – in retaliation to Germany's broadcasting regulator's decision to ban transmission of the Russian state-run RT Deutsch channel over a lack of a broadcasting license, the Russian foreign ministry said that it would shut down Deutsche Welle's Moscow bureau, strip all DW staff of their accreditation and terminate broadcasting of DW in Russia. It also stated that it would begin the procedure of designating DW as a "foreign agent".
15 February – The Russian State Duma votes to ask President Vladimir Putin to recognize the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics in Ukraine as independent nations. The bill was proposed by the Communist Party.
21 February – Putin announces that Russia has recognized the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics in Ukraine as independent nations. This came after the Duma asked for it a week ago.
24 February – Russia launches a large-scale invasion of Ukraine from Crimea and Belarus.
10 March - After Russia was suspended from the Council of Europe in the wake of its 2022 invasion of Ukraine, and subsequently announced its intention to withdraw from the organization, former President (2008–2012) and Prime Minister (2012–2020) Dmitry Medvedev endorsed restoring the death penalty in Russia.
16 March 2022 – Russian socialite and food blogger Veronika Belotserkovskaya became the first individual charged under the Russian 2022 war censorship laws.
22 March 2022 – Russian television journalist Alexander Nevzorov was charged under the "war censorship" law after he published information that Russian forces shelled a maternity hospital in Mariupol.
27 March – Leonid Pasechnik leader of the LPR said that the Luhansk People's Republic may hold a referendum to join Russia in the near future.
30 March - A few days later South Ossetian President Anatoly Bibilov announced his intention to begin legal proceedings in the near future to integration with the Russian Federation.
22 April 2022 – Russian opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza was charged by a Russian court for spreading of false information about the Russian military, due to his 15 March speech to the Arizona House of Representatives, in which he denounced the Russo-Ukrainian war.
26 April - Veshkayma kindergarten shooting
09 May - President Vladimir Putin presided over the Victory Day parade in Moscow. The parade was scaled down compared to previous years but was conducted to justify and underline the invasion of Ukraine by Russia.
16 May - After temporarily closing its restaurants, McDonald's in Russia company decided to exit Russia altogether. the company announced that it would sell all of its restaurants in Russia. It would be replaced by the Russian Vkusno i tochka.
8 July – Russian opposition politician Alexei Gorinov was sentenced to 7 years in prison for criticizing the Russo-Ukrainian war.
2 August - The Russian Supreme Court declare the Azov Regiment as a terrorist organization.
18 August -  Russia revives the Soviet-era Mother Heroine award for women with 10 children.
21 August - A car bomb kills Darya Dugina, daughter of Alexander Dugin, an ideological advisor of Putin, who was due to travel in the same car.
24 August 2022 - Russian opposition politician Yevgeny Roizman was detained by police who said he was being charged with discrediting the military. He had previously been fined three times under the same law.
31 August – War-related emigration since the start of Russo-Ukrainian war reached 500,000.
18–19 September – A small but significant tornado outbreak affects Ukraine and Russia, killing three people.
9 September 2022 - seven council members from Smolninsky District Council in St. Petersburg passed a resolution which called on the State Duma to impeach president Putin for high treason due to his handling of the war in Ukraine. Subsequently, the council was dissolved and the deputies charged with discrediting Russia's military.
19 September - the public chambers of the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic appealed to their heads of state with a request to "immediately" hold a referendum on joining Russia.
20 September - the People's Council of the Luhansk People's Republic scheduled a referendum on the republic's entry into Russia as a federal subject for 23–27 September. Soon after, the People's Council of the Donetsk People's Republic announced that the referendum on the entry of the DPR into the Russian Federation would be held on the same date.
21 September - President Vladimir Putin announced the 2022 Russian mobilization.
26 September - Izhevsk school shooting
27 September - 2022 annexation referendums in Russian-occupied Ukraine 
According to the results released by Russian occupation authorities in Ukraine, the Donetsk People's Republic, the Luhansk People's Republic, as well as occupied parts of Zaporizhzhia and Kherson Oblasts overwhelmingly vote in favor of annexation, with 99.23%, 98.42%, 93.11% and 87.05% of support, respectively. Turnout exceeded 75% in each region and exceeded 97% in Donetsk Oblast. However, the voting has been widely dismissed as a sham referendum.
30 September - President Vladimir Putin signed decrees recognizing the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions as independent territories.
Putin announced in a speech that Russia had annexed the four regions occupied during the conflict.
17 October - 2022 Yeysk military aircraft crash
23 October - 2022 Irkutsk military aircraft crash 
27 October - The State Duma unanimously gives preliminary approval to a bill strengthening a law against "propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations". The bill will expand the ban on "propaganda" to all ages, and will outlaw media and online resources, including films, books, and theater productions.
5 November - Kostroma café fire
24 November - The State Duma passes a bill strengthening a law against "propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations". The bill will expand the ban on "propaganda" to all ages, and will outlaw media and online resources, including films, books, and theater productions.
5 December - President Vladimir Putin signs into law the "propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations."
8 December - Viktor Bout–Brittney Griner prisoner exchange
23 December - 2022 Kemerovo nursing home fire