Events in the year 2023 in Syria


== Incumbents ==

President: Bashar al-Assad
Vice President: Najah al-Attar
Prime Minister: Hussein Arnous


== Events ==
For events related to the civil war, see Timeline of the Syrian civil war (2023)

22 January – At least 13 people are killed when a five-story building collapses in Aleppo, due to a leaking of water in the building's foundation.
6 February – 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquakes
10 February – The death toll in the Turkey-Syria earthquakes has passed 23,000.
17 February – Islamic State gunmen massacre 68 people in Al-Sukhnah in Homs Governorate, including 61 civilians who were truffle hunting.
23 February – Fifteen people are killed and 40 others are kidnapped in Hama Governorate during an ambush on truffle hunters by Islamic State members.
29 March – Syrian President Bashar al-Assad reshuffles the government's cabinet amid an increase in prices and shortages of food due to the severe economic situation the country, which was worsened by the recent earthquake.
9 April – Eight people are killed after a land mine planted by Islamic State members explodes in Deir ez-Zor.
16 April – At least 36 people are killed after Islamic State fighters attack a group of truffle hunters in Hama Governorate.
16 April – 5 shepherds are killed when Islamic State gunmen open fire at them in Deir ez-Zor.
10 August – Emergence of the 10th August movement of renewed civil protest against the government.
17 August – Start of general strike and 2023 Syrian protests.
22 September – President Bashar al-Assad visits China, meets with China's President Xi Jinping, and signs a strategic partnership with China on infrastructure as part of China's Belt and Road Initiative.
12 October – Syria says Israel has launched airstrikes on Damascus International Airport and Aleppo International Airport. Air defences were activated in response to the attacks.
25 October – The Israeli Air Force launches airstrikes on "military infrastructure" of the Syrian Armed Forces in Daraa Governorate, killing eight Syrian soldiers and injuring seven others.
27 October – The U.S. military says that it has conducted airstrikes on Iran-backed targets in Syria linked to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
8 November – At least 30 pro-government militia forces and soldiers are killed in a series of attacks by the Islamic State (IS) near the cities of Deir ez-Zor, Homs, and Raqqa, with Russian airstrikes targeting the IS positions in response.
8 December – Syria says an Israeli airstrike has killed four people in a vehicle in Madinat al-Baath, Quneitra Governorate. Local media reports the victims were affiliated with Iran-backed militias. Shortly after the airstrike, rocket sirens are triggered in Israel's Galilee region.
12 December – Several drug dealers and a soldier are killed during a shootout at Jordan's border with Syria.
17 December – Syrian military shelling in Aleppo Governorate kills six civilians in Darat Izza and two civilians in Abzimou.
25 December – High-ranking Iranian general Sayyed Razi Mousavi is killed in an Israeli airstrike in Syria.
30 December – Four Hezbollah members and two other militants are killed during three airstrikes at Syria's border with Iraq.