The following lists events in the year 2018 in Israel.


== Incumbents ==
President – Reuven Rivlin
Prime Minister – Benjamin Netanyahu
President of the Supreme Court – Esther Hayut
Chief of General Staff – Gadi Eizenkot
Government of Israel – 34th government of Israel


== Events ==


=== January ===
1 January - An American Jewish rabbi publishes an ad in The Washington Post calling the New Zealand pop singer Lorde a "bigot" after she cancelled her concert in Israel.
2 January –
President Donald Trump tweets that the U.S. may withhold future payments to the Palestinian authority, over 350 million dollars per year, because they are "no longer willing to talk peace" with Israel, and that Israel  "would have had to pay more" in return for his recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
Israel announces plans to deport African migrants who reside in the country illegally, with 90 days given to either leave the country or face imprisonment.
7 January - The Iranian Revolutionary Guards accuse the "Zionist regime of Israel" of inciting the unrest of last week's unrest.
11 January - Two 16-year-old Palestinians are shot and killed in separate clashes with the Israeli army.
14 January - The Israel Defense Forces announces the complete destruction of an underground tunnel dug by Hamas under the Kerem Shalom crossing. Israel shut down the crossing before its jets bombed the tunnel opening in Gaza Saturday night. The crossing remains closed.
15 January - Nabil Shaath, the foreign affairs adviser of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, says that the Palestinian Central Council freezes its recognition of the state of Israel until Israel recognizes Palestine as a state. Palestine will freeze the Oslo accords.
21 January - King Abdullah II of Jordan tells U.S. Vice President Mike Pence the U.S. has to rebuild "trust and confidence" to achieve a two-state solution in Israel after the U.S. recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
22 January - In a meeting with the President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini assures President Abbas that the European Union supports his ambition to have East Jerusalem as capital of a Palestinian state.
25 January - U.S. President Donald Trump threatens to stop aid to Palestine if they do not agree to partake in with Israeli peace talks.


=== February ===
1 February - The Palestine Liberation Organization "rejects and condemns" the United States decision to put Hamas leader Ismael Haniyeh on the OFAC SDN terror blacklist.
4 January -
The Cabinet of Israel decides to legalize a previously unauthorized outpost "deep inside the [occupied] West Bank", Havat Gilad, allegedly in reaction to the recent killing of Israeli rabbi Raziel Shevah, a 35-year-old father of six on January 9 in a drive by shooting.
Israeli authorities tear down parts of a European Union-funded school in the Palestinian village of Abu Nuwar, on the occupied West Bank, saying it was built illegally. Palestinians say this is the fifth such demolition since 2016, with residents and NGO's each time reconstructing it.
5 February – Itamar Ben Gal, an Israeli rabbi is stabbed to death by an Israeli Arab near Ariel, West Bank.
6 February – Polish President Andrzej Duda ratifies a controversial Holocaust bill, despite angry protests from Israel and the United States. Duda defends the legislation, which will make it illegal to accuse the Polish state of complicity in the Holocaust during the Nazi occupation.
9–25 February – Israel at the 2018 Winter Olympics
10 February – An Israeli F16 is shot down by the Syrian air defenses after conducting an air raid on Iran-backed positions inside Syrian territory.


=== March ===
2 March – An Israel Police anti-corruption unit questions Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife Sara.
3 March – Gazan officials say Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian farmer on his own land in the Gaza Strip. An Israeli military spokesperson said that he got too close to the border fence.
18 March – Secretary-General of the Arab League Ahmed Aboul Gheit demands Guatemala reverse its decision to move its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Guatemala, Sandra Jovel says the move is "irreversible."
20 March –
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas insults U.S. Ambassador to Israel David M. Friedman, calling him a "son of a dog" when he says Israeli settlers build on their land in the occupied West Bank. The U.S. warns Abbas to "choose between hate and peace".
Palestinians hold a mass demonstration in Gaza Strip, ahead of the planned moving of the U.S. Embassy.
30 March – Start of the 2018–2019 Gaza border protests
31 March –
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas accuses Israel of responsibility for the deaths of 16 protestors at the border with Gaza. Israel accuses Palestinian terrorists of using civilians as human shields. A video begins circulating on social media appearing to show an unarmed teenager being shot. (Bloomberg)
Israel claims to have identified ten of the dead as members of terrorist organisations, and publishes a list of their names and the groups Israel says they belonged to.


=== April ===
1 April –
The Israeli Government rejects calls for an inquiry, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu likening criticism by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to an April Fool's Day joke.
23 Israeli tourists injured in a bus crash in Slanic Prahova, Romania.
3 April –
Israeli forces fatally shoot eighteen Palestinians at Gaza border.
Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Liberman says the nation will maintain its tactics at the Gazan border of shooting anybody who approaches the fence, and calls on Hamas to cease hostilities in exchange for aid.
Human Rights Watch claims there was no evidence of any threat to Israeli soldiers and calls the killings 'unlawful' and 'calculated'.
Hamas claims Israeli forces fatally shoot a 25-year-old man at the border fence near Bureij.
26 April – Ten military cadets from a cadet academy die after being carried off by a surge in the Tzafit stream west of the Dead Sea amid floodings caused by intense storms that strike southern Israel.
30 April – Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accuses Iran of not holding up its end of the nuclear deal with the P5+1 countries after presenting a cache over 100,000 documents detailing the extent of Iran's nuclear program. Iran denounced Netanyahu's presentation as "propaganda". Shortly after President Trump withdrew the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.


=== May ===

4–27 May – 2018 Giro d'Italia cycling Grand Tour
10 May – Iran's Quds Force on the Syrian-held side of the Golan Heights fired around 20 projectiles towards Israeli army positions without causing damages or injuries. In response, Israel launched an extensive strike against Iranian targets in Syria.
12 May – Netta Barzilai wins first place for Israel at the Eurovision Song Contest with her song "Toy".
14 May – The new embassy of the United States opens in Jerusalem.
23 May – The Knesset passed a law allowing the Security Cabinet to declare war.


=== June ===
June 21 – Sara Netanyahu, wife of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was charged for an alleged fraud.
June 25 – Prince William began a trip to Israel and the Palestinian territories, becoming the first British royal to visit the country in an official capacity.


=== July ===
July 12 – Start of the 2018 World Lacrosse Championship in Netanya
July 19 – Israel incorporated in its basic laws a declaration of the country as the "nation-state of the Jewish people."


=== September ===
September 17 – Syria missile strikes
September 25 – Tel Aviv–Jerusalem railway is officially inaugurated.


=== October ===
October 7 – 2018 Barkan Industrial Park shooting
October 30 – Israeli municipal elections


=== November ===
November 11 – November Gaza–Israel clashes


=== December ===
December 4 – The Israeli military launched Operation Northern Shield to destroy cross-border tunnels built by Hezbollah along Israel's border with Lebanon.
December 21 – Israel announced its departure from UNESCO, citing bias.