The following lists events in the year 2022 in Venezuela.


== Incumbents ==
President: Nicolás Maduro, Juan Guaidó (presidential crisis)
Vice President: Delcy Rodríguez


=== Governors ===
Amazonas: Miguel Rodríguez
Anzoátegui: Luis José Marcano Salazar
Apure: Eduardo Piñate
Aragua: Rodolfo Clemente Marco Torres and Daniela González
Barinas: Sergio Garrido
Bolívar: Ángel Bautista Marcano
Carabobo: Rafael Lacava
Cojedes: José Alberto Galíndez
Delta Amacuro: Lizeta Hernández
Falcón: Víctor Clark
Guárico: José Manuel Vásquez
Lara: Adolfo Pereira Antique
Mérida: Jehyson Guzmán
Miranda: Héctor Rodríguez
Monagas: Yelitza Santaella and Cosme Arzolay
Nueva Esparta: Morel Rodríguez Ávila
Portuguesa: Rafael Calles
Sucre: Gilberto Pinto Blanco
Táchira: Freddy Bernal
Trujillo: Gerardo Marquez
Vargas: José Alejandro Terán
Yaracuy: Julio León Heredia
Zulia: Manuel Rosales


== Events ==
25 January – Brazil and Venezuela will reopen their border after a two year closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
6 March – The United States start talks with Venezuela about supplies of its oil, currently under sanctions, in an attempt to substitute the Russian crude. So far the talks yielded few results.
8 March – U.S. President Joe Biden announces that Venezuela has freed two Americans, Gustavo Cardenas and Jorge Fernandez, after being detained in the country.
14 May – Venezuela announces that it will sell 5–10% shares in state-owned companies to private investors in order to help fund state enterprises.
17 May – The United States lifts some economic sanctions on Venezuela, including allowing the Chevron Corporation to negotiate its license with the Venezuelan PDVSA state-owned oil company and removing the names of some Venezuelan officials from a United States government list of sanctioned individuals.
25 May – Colombian and Venezuelan intelligence officials confirm the death of Miguel Botache Santillana, alias Gentil Duarte, the top leader of the FARC dissidents.
11 June – Top oil and petrochemicals producers Iran and Venezuela sign a 20-year economic cooperation agreement.
12 June – Authorities in Argentina seize an Iranian Boeing 747 which was transferred to Venezuela last year. It is unclear if the impound is related to sanctions that have been imposed on both countries.
28 August – Colombia and Venezuela restore diplomatic relations after three years.
9 October – A landslide caused by days of torrential rain kills at least 22 people in Santos Michelena.