Events in the year 2023 in Yemen.


== Incumbents ==
Aden government

Sanaa government


== Events ==
Ongoing — COVID-19 pandemic in Yemen — The Houthi–Saudi Arabian conflict (since 2015) — The Yemeni Civil War (2014–present) - Houthi involvement in the 2023 Israel–Hamas war

21 January – Six people are injured after a bomb explodes in al-Majaza, Shabwah Governorate.
21 March – Ten Yemeni soldiers are killed by Houthi Islamists in Harib District, Marib Governorate, despite a truce reached between the government and the rebels on Monday.
28 March – Six Houthis and five Yemeni soldiers are killed during clashes in government-controlled Lahj Governorate.
14 April – A major prisoner swap begins between rival factions in Yemen as a first flight between Houthi-controlled Sanaa and government-controlled Aden saw nearly 900 prisoners freed.
19 October – In the Red Sea, the United States Navy destroyer USS Carney uses SM-2 missiles to shoot down three cruise missiles and eight drones launched by Houthi forces in Yemen. The Pentagon says that the missiles and drones were "potentially headed towards Israel".
8 November – A United States Air Force MQ-9 Reaper is shot down in international airspace off the coast of Yemen. The Iran-backed Houthis claim responsibility for the shooting.
19 November –
The Houthi movement hijacks a British cargo ship operated by a Japanese company and partially owned by an Israeli businessman in the Red Sea. 25 people are on board from different nationalities, including Ukrainians, Bulgarians, Filipinos, and Mexicans.
On the group's Telegram channel, Houthi spokesman Yahya Saree declares their intention to target ships owned or operated by Israeli companies, or carrying the Israeli flag.
10 December – French Navy frigate Languedoc shoots down two drones over the Red Sea that were launched from Yemen, according to the French Armed Forces Ministry.
14 December – Maersk calls for "political action" after a ballistic missile launched by the Houthis in Yemen narrowly misses one of their container ships in the Bab-el-Mandeb strait. An unknown vessel claiming to be from the Yemeni Navy also ordered the ship to sail towards the Yemeni coast.
15 December –
Two Liberian-flagged vessels in the Bab-el-Mandeb strait are attacked with drones and ballistic missiles launched by Houthi militants in Yemen, causing a fire on one of the ships. No injuries are reported.
Shipping firms Hapag-Lloyd and Maersk announce a suspension of all container shipments through the Red Sea until further notice amid Houthi attacks on commercial vessels.
16 December – The Royal Navy's HMS Diamond shoots down a drone launched from Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen over the Red Sea using a Sea Viper missile.
18 December –
A Norwegian-owned tanker en route to Réunion, M/V Swan Atlantic, is attacked in the Red Sea with the owner of the ship saying that the ship was hit by an "unidentified object" that struck its port side causing a small fire but no injuries.
British multinational oil and gas company BP suspends all shipments through the Red Sea in response to an increase in Houthi attacks on commercial vessels.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin announces a coalition of ten nations, called Operation Prosperity Guardian, to enforce security in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden amid Houthi attacks.
21 December – At least 10 more nations, including Australia and Greece, join the United States-led Operation Prosperity Guardian task force to counter Houthi attacks in the Red Sea.
23 December – United Nations Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg announces that the conflicting parties agree to a new ceasefire and to participate in a UN-led peace process.
31 December – Ten Houthi militants are killed during an engagement between four Houthi boats and United States Navy helicopters defending the cargo ship Maersk Hangzhou in the Red Sea.