Events in the year 2021 in North Korea.


== Incumbents ==
Party Chairman → Party General Secretary: Kim Jong Un
Chairman of the State Affairs Commission: Kim Jong Un
President of the Supreme People's Assembly: Choe Ryong-hae
Premier: Kim Tok-hun


== Events ==
January 4, 2021 – North Korea submitted an application to secure coronavirus vaccines through a global program that assisted low-income countries.
From 5 January – The 8th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea.
January 8, 2021 – North Korean leader Kim Jong-un vowed to work on inter-Korean relations to expand diplomatic engagement and hosted a rare party congress.
10 January – 8th Congress congress restored the operative functions of the General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea, a title previously awarded "eternally" to Kim Jong Il, and elected Kim Jong Un to it.
On January 14, a military parade took place in Kim Il-sung Square in which ballistic missiles were revealed, after a Workers' Party of Korea meeting was held by Kim Jong Un to oppose growing "US hostility." The Korean Central News Agency announced that the nuclear weapons showcased could “pre-emptively and completely destroy any enemy outside of our territory”.
March 25, 2021 – North Korea launched two ballistic missiles into the Sea of Japan, the first missile test to happen during the United States' Biden administration.
June 15, 2021 – At a Central Committee Plenary Session, Kim Jong-un publicly acknowledged a “tense food situation” caused by floods and the pandemic, and ordered stronger efforts in agriculture and rural management.
September 11, 2021 – North Korea tested a new long-range cruise missile. State media claimed it traveled 1,500 kilometers and described it as a "strategic weapon" with potential nuclear capability.
October 4, 2021 – North Korea announced it would reactivate all communication lines with South Korea after urging Seoul to make “positive” efforts to restore ties. The decision came days after Kim Jong-un expressed an intention during a policy speech to reopen the hotlines in early October.
November 5, 2021 – A United Nations report found that more than four in ten North Koreans were suffering from undernourishment, as the country continued to face chronic food shortages.
November 6, 2021 – North Korea launched a major crackdown to root out foreign culture, primarily from South Korea, as well as “capitalist tendencies,” including corruption.
December 13, 2021 – South Korea, North Korea, China, and the United States agreed “in principle” to declare a formal end to the Korean War, nearly 70 years after the conflict ended in an armistice, according to South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
December 27, 2021 – Kim Jong-un declared 2022 the “Year of Rural Development,” focusing on farming and regional industry, and reiterated the need for self-reliance amid sanctions and prolonged border closures.